Welcome everybody. We're going to start the next session now. It's my pleasure to introduce
Pierre Slamish who will be speaking on open food facts, acting on the health environment
impact of the food system. Hello everyone. I just have a quick question. Have any of
you in the room used NutriScore to choose food products by raise of hand? Okay. So you'll
see that open food fact has played a little part in getting NutriScore out. So let's start
and let's dive right in. There's a lot on the menu. So for those who don't know open
food fact, I'll briefly introduce it. I'll have a section on what's new in the project
this year, what's cooking for next year, and also we'll be able to do Q&A probably outdoors.
So about open food fact, it's a project that we started 10 years ago. So it's an NGO and
it tries to answer how do you choose the best product in the supermarket? A lot of information
and it's not legible. I've never been able to understand the nutrition table. It's abstract
out to me. So a long ingredient list as well. And yet food has a massive impact on public
health. To give you an idea, obesity and overweight wipes 3% of our GDP due to the cost of treating
obesity and overweight. And the same goes for the planet. One quarter of food emission
is food. One quarter of carbon emission. So the idea of open food fact is to empower
users and contributors who have an impact on their own health, on the environment, and
on the health system at large. Our slogan, if you will, is don't panic but organize. So
crowdsourcing is a way to do that mobile crowdsourcing. And if Wikipedia was able to build the largest
on the planet, open street map, the largest map, why not build the largest database of
food products on the planet? Two days, 10 years in, we have 3 million products from over
160 countries. Main sources, crowdsourcing, so you and me using mobile. But also the food
industry which has started to realize that transparency in the end wins. So the mobile
app of open food fact allows you to choose products that are good for you and the planet.
You scan barcodes, you get NutriScore and EcoScore. You also have a personal scan for those of
you who have food allergies or want to go vegan. It will help you on the journey. It's
of course privacy preserving. So it's privacy by design. We don't require any login. And
if you don't have a NutriScore in your country yet, you can get it on any products in a couple
of seconds. You answer a few questions in the app and you get the scores instantaneously.
So you can take your health to the next level with NutriScore and which is about the nutritional
quality and NOVA which is about food ultra processing. So avoid NOVA for products as
much as you possibly can. We also do additives and labels. And we make it simple to understand
all of that. With NutriScore, we started computing it in 2015 when it was a scientific paper.
It was called the five color score. And now we compute it in every country including Mexico
and the United States. Everyone can get it even if a producer don't want you to get it.
So we recompute it. We create an ecosystem around it. And the nice thing is that as you
all experienced, it's now in supermarkets in Europe. It's still not compulsory though.
And producers are beginning to improve their products. And we also show EcoScore which
is about the planet. So same principle. We use something called life cycle analysis which
are very precise analysis of food products. So it's an average. And then on top of the
average, we make the computation more precise to the products using specific data. With
EcoScore, the great news is that France will have an EcoScore despite all the trouble you
are seeing right now in France. It's in low. So that's the cool news. It's beginning to
be experimented in Belgium, in Colbert. And it's also available in many European countries
and the US. And so yeah, we are having a more global discussion around it. In terms of impact,
OpenFoodFact has quite a lot. Because we are open data, over 250 projects, application
services reuse the data to inform users from questions on pregnancy, allergies, etc. Even
big corporations use it. In terms of impact, it's a simple circle. We collect data using our
mobile phone. People are more and more reusing that data to do many things including scientific
research. People get more educated, more mindful about what they eat. They start changing their
behaviors, their purchase behavior. And the whole industry actually starts to follow. The
producers are taking notice and they are changing their recipe as a result and everyone benefits.
And the circle goes on and on. So from those kind of Photoshop or GIMP images that we did a couple
of years ago, we went straight to this where the NutriScore is everywhere. So yeah, you go from
Perl code to real life impact where basically all products, all newly introduced products start to
change for the better. What you can also see across Europe is for instance the differences
between In The Food Offer. We take photos across space and time for 10 years and we found out that
the Fanta Recipes change across Europe. So for instance, Italy 12% fruit, Serbia 3% fruit,
Portugal 8% fruit plus high fructose corn syrup and 0% fruit in the French island of
Réunion. So that's the kind of thing you can do with data. We can also have a giant map of food
factories in Europe. So that's may near me. And all the packaging code you see on food products,
we actually collect and we can map them. You can do benchmark if you're liking to data,
if you want to choose a perfect year old. No, you can. So it's highly customizable. In 20 seconds,
you can do your own charts. We also have a platform for the food industry. So whoops, sorry. Yeah,
for the food industry to help them actually reformulate, we say, okay, here's an opportunity to
reduce a little bit sugar and then you will get a better NutriScore. So we compute all of that.
And brands have started playing the game. Some of the brands you consume every day are actually
doing open data and sending open data to open food fact. Even the big ones like Unilever,
even Ferrero from Nutella are doing that. So they're starting to realize that consumer pressure
is important. In terms of milestones, so as I said, we launched NutriScore in 2015. We launched
EcoScore more recently and ultra processing in 2018. So the project is a bit over 10 year old.
And this year, we cross the three million products threshold, which is a nice milestone.
We are now at 3.1 million monthly visitors on the websites and the app and contributors together
have made 28 million edits since 2018 and it's growing, it's still growing.
The permanent team is growing. The community is much more engaged this year than it used to be.
We were doing European meetups. We had our second open food fact days this fall. And we are also
getting more people into coding. This year, we also scaled app marketing so that new users
discover about open data, open source and open food fact to 40 languages. And we started getting
into European events and trying to get a European committee off the ground and not just be a French
project. In terms of manufacturers, we introduced a few new features as well. Manufacturers are
getting on board. And even more important to us, as scientific use and reuse, we have 30 scientific
paper in nutrition, in machine learning based in 2023. And we have increased the reuse a little bit
as well. So what's cooking for 2024? It's going to be a big year. First and foremost, because
the new score is going to change. The formula is going to become more strict. You know that there's
Italy is trying to block it at the European level. And the scientists are overwhelmingly
supporting new three score. Seven countries have adopted it. And now it's the question of whether
it will become the European score. The new formula is going to be more stringent, like seven out of
10 products are going to lose a grade. Most of them are going to lose a grade. And it will be a
two-year transition in real life. But as soon as we start deploying it on open food fact, it will
be on every, the new computation will be on all products directly in open food fact, even before
producers do the transition. On mobile, it's going to be a big year. I'm going to go very fast
because there are only four minutes left. So we did a lot of user interview this fall.
And so we are going to make the app more pedagogical and to improve search. So here's a
screenshot of all the ideas by the community. So we are going to improve the onboarding so that
people better understand the scores. We are going to make the personalization engine more intuitive.
We are going to make all the information more legible, guides even to go further for French
people. We are going to try and tackle the mineral water scandal. And improving search. Also,
thanks to the support of NGI, NGI search, we are going to have a live search in open food fact.
And this year, we are going to go beyond food. So the thing is, we have had an impact on food.
But there are many objects like, I know, this projector or this chair, which have a life cycle.
And then at one point, the owner decides it's not worth keeping anymore. And as a result,
we are surrounded by object, but some of us no longer serve us or please us. And they end up in
the incinerator because we fail collectively to give them a second, a third life to repair them,
to fix them. And so open product fact is all about that. Giving open data to power of circular
economy. So today, this year, we are going to merge open food fact with open product facts,
beauty facts and pet food facts so that you can scan anything on the planet and get solutions for it.
And yes, people have asked us for that for years. We are getting into price collection this year.
People, we started open food fact once, so what's in my food? But no, people want to know at what price.
So we are starting open prices. Currently, it's only a web app. It's only five weeks old. So it's
still a very experimental project. Even the logo is experimental.
But basically adding a price takes 20 seconds. You scan the barcode, you put the price details,
you put the location. It remembers the two or three locations you inputted previously.
And then you start to realize weird stuff. Like for instance, price variation in the same city
for the same products, for the same supermarket chain, and nobody is able to explain why.
We are also thinking that we could kickstart a European price collection and build the first
European Nutella price index. So we already have a few prices in Europe, but you'd be very welcome
to add the prices nearby at your favorite shop. We are also, this is more experimental, but we
also would like to help people free their data from receipts. So now at this point, you are
asking how can I get involved in my country? So we have a broad European coverage that's already
there, but there's still a lot of work to do. So how can you contribute? Scan and add new products.
That's the most basic, but the most vital way to contribute to open food facts. Translations,
word spreading, taxonomies and design. So a lot of knowledge about food required. And if you
develop in any programming language, hacking and fixing is welcome. We have many programming
language you can contribute. So the mobile app is in Flutter. We have some machine learning,
robot off in Python. So we're even experimenting with LLMs and 60 seconds on the clock.
Perl, Python, you name it. There's really something for you in there. So that's the QR
code. If you want to become a volunteer, you can scan this QR code or go to openfac.work.com.
Also, if you're a student or an adult, you have a Google Summer code we are going to apply. So if
you want to become a mentor, a mentor or refer a mentor, feel free to do so. It's nice to have
a large impact on food. We are independent from the food industry, by the way. We're not
like a startup or anything. So we'd like to thank all the sponsors that are supporting
some part of open food fact. So thank them for enabling infrastructure or everything.
So I guess let's get in touch. Eight seconds on the clock. You have the contact email, my
personal email, and you can install the app right here. Thank you.